# Good Presentation

## The Imprortance of Presentation

* How many things do we take a whole day for at DBC: Roman Numerals, a day of
  working on a final project, etc.  It's a way of communicating "this is
  important."
* Jr. Engineer to Engineer to Sr. Engineer to Engineering Manager
  * Ability to present determines your career
  * Ability to present determines the fate of your group: you will literally
    control lives.
  * You need to learn to do this

## Practice

* Great presentations are practiced.  Over and over again.  And again.

## Stagecraft

Great presentations are exercises in stagecraft.  If you have a history in
dance, performance art, or etc. this is your time to really add something to a
team.  `1000.times { puts "quality of presentation is directly correlated to
numbers of run-throughs" }`

## Duration

10-15 minutes

## General

Presenting is very simple, but that doesn't mean it's easy.  You should strive
to follow the shape and form of a good High School Senior English essay:

* Introduction that establishes emotional hook
* 3 - 5 stories of battles / challenges / victories / "losses" i.e. "learning
  experiences
* Thanks appreciation, emotional answer and appeal to the question opened in
  the introcution

## Introduction

Realize this: the first fundamental technology of humankind for communicating
ideas was _the story_.  Oral traditions _still_ tell us of how our ancestors
lived in times ago.  The Australian Aboriginall songlines go back _two
millenia_.  Any student of Greek immediately smells the salt and
tastes the blood of brave heroes when the words "Sing to me O muse of that man
skilled in all ways of contending!"  Roman citizens would feel the hot blood of
patriotism flood when they heard the founding myth of Aeneas: "Of arms and a
man I sing, an exile of Troy who first came to the Italian shores driven by
weighty fate!"  **USE A STORY**.  Your app exists to fix a problem, to appeal
to a moment you had, _let your audience in on that_.  Inspire and entice them
to sit through slides about loops and APIs and JSON objects by filling their
hearts in your opening phase.  From this _transition to_ a team introduction
and then a demo.  The order on introductions and hook is flexible, but make
that emotional connection.

## Demo

Preparation is the key here. Know who will drive the demo.  Know who will speak
the demo's narration.

## Stories

You next want to give a series of wins / losses/ battle stories.  These are
what interviewers love to hear about in interviews. What was a challenge?  What
was a decision?  What was a mistake? Why was it challenging, how did that
decision pan out, how did you recover from the mistake?  Your wins can be
uninspiring, sometimes a loss shows you in a petter light than a win. Be
honest, talk about what you put in, what you fought, what you overcame (or had
to slate to next release!).

## Closing

**DO NOT FLUB YOUR CLOSING**

This is your last chance to make an impression.  Don't go "And that's pretty
much it, it was fun. Uh,  yeah, bye."  That's **CHUMP GRADE**.  If you woke the
blood in my heart in the introduction and delivered 3-5 good stories, you need
to close out like a Van Halen show. **You have to close with "[Jump]."**

Get the audience on your feet.  When Steve Jobs ended his keynotes at the
Moscone center in SF rabid Apple fans could not run toward the Market Street
Apple store _fast enough_ to buy the new iNonsense.  Do that.

## Slidecraft

* Slides are not
  * Paragraphs
  * Web pages
  * They are auxiliary stopping points for talking about a story that lives
    **OUTSIDE** of the slides themselves

###  DO

  * Big text
  * Less of it
  * High contrast
  * Big pictures
  * Charts, not tables
  * Use a normal typeface with text at the top

## Code

Generally you don't want to see code. Your audience wants to be inspired, to
get an idea, and to be curious. You don't have to show the innards to prove
that it works the way that you say it does.

You _can_ show _some_ code but you need to be very focused about it.

  * Really, I meant it re: high contrast
  * Use a syntax highlighter
  * A screen-shot is better than text
  * Diff views are great to show changes....to show the big pink and green.
  * If you need to point out something in particular, use a great big arrow
    to say "look here."  If you don't, people will be looking at your slides,
    not you.

### DO NOT (Flash == Trash)
  * Annoying animations

## Peeves
  * Don't show me login

## Reference
  * A successful 10 year corporate career
  * Shane Becker: [Your Slides Suck](http://www.confreaks.com/videos/488-larubyconf2011-your-slides-suck)

[Jump]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SwYN7mTi6HM
